Add platform to glossary (#30731)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/glossary.md

To learn more, see [Pipes](guide/pipes).

{@a platform}

## platform

> The context in which an Angular application runs, which is typically a web browser, but can also be an operating system for a mobile device, or a server. When running in a web browser, the [platform-browser](https://angular.io/api/platform-browser) module supplies services that allow an application to access specific browser features, such as the title of the document being displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for the various Angular platforms lives in the `@angular/platform-*` packages. These platforms provide a context in which an Angular application runs. This context may polyfill certain APIs or provide new platform-specific APIs. The most common context is a web browser, but it can also be an operating system for a mobile device, or a web server.

When running in a web browser, the [platform-browser](https://angular.io/api/platform-browser) module supplies services that allow an application to access browser-specific features, such as the title of the document being displayed.

When [server-side rendering](https://angular.io/guide/universal) (SSR) is used the `platform-server` package provides web server implementations of the `DOM`, `XMLHttpRequest`, and other low-level features that don't rely on a browser.
```

Author: edited

To learn more, see [Pipes](guide/pipes).

{@a platform}

## platform

Platforms provide a context in which an Angular application runs.

> The most common context is a web browser, but it can also be an operating system for a mobile device, or a web server.

Reviewer 2: These two sentences doesn't fit well: 

+ **Platforms provide a context** in which ....
+ The most common **context is a web browser**, ...

Combing them and it'll logically become **a web browser is provided by platform**, which is clearly not true.
The main problem is, what is the definition of **context** here?

To learn more, see [Pipes](guide/pipes).

{@a platform}

## platform

Platforms provide a context in which an Angular application runs.
The most common context is a web browser, but it can also be an operating system for a mobile device, or a web server.

Support for the various Angular run-time platforms is provided by the `@angular/platform-*` packages.

> A platform can [polyfill](#polyfill) certain APIs or provide new platform-specific APIs.

Reviewer 3: A platform doesn't polyfill APIs. I'm not sure what this sentence is supposed to mean but I would just remove it. Polyfills are unrelated to a platform as far as Angular is concerned.

> * When running in a web browser, the [`platform-browser`](api/platform-browser) package supplies services that allow an application to access browser-specific features, such as the title of the document being displayed.

Reviewer 4: Maybe mention here that there is only one platform on a given web page, no matter how many Angular applications are running there?

Author: @alxhub please check wording.

> * When running in a web browser, the [`platform-browser`](api/platform-browser) package supplies services that allow applications to access browser-specific features, such as the title of the document being displayed. All applications running in the browser use the same platform service.

Reviewer 3: platform- packages primarily enable apps written against @angular/core, @angualar/common and  friends to execute in different environments by providing implementation for gathering user input and rendering UIs for the given platform. This allows Angular apps to be written In a platform independent way. The title service is one example of that but that API is quite insignificant compared to general dom manipulation apis that platforms abstract away.

Author: @IgorMinar Please check rewrite

To learn more, see [Pipes](guide/pipes).

{@a platform}

## platform

Platforms provide a context in which an Angular application runs.
The most common context is a web browser, but it can also be an operating system for a mobile device, or a web server.

Support for the various Angular run-time platforms is provided by the `@angular/platform-*` packages.
A platform can [polyfill](#polyfill) certain APIs or provide new platform-specific APIs.

> * When running in a web browser, the [`platform-browser`](api/platform-browser) package supplies services that allow an application to access browser-specific features, such as the title of the document being displayed.

Reviewer: https://pr30731-b9be57d.ngbuilds.io/api/platform-browser provides a link to [Browser Support](guide/browser-support) 👍

> * When [server-side rendering](#server-side-rendering) (SSR) is used, the [`platform-server`](api/platform-server) package provides web server implementations of the `DOM`, `XMLHttpRequest`, and other low-level features that don't rely on a browser.

Reviewer: https://pr30731-b9be57d.ngbuilds.io/api/platform-server doesn't really have any helpful documentation copy at all. We should add a short description and link to the appropriate guide like [platform-browser](https://pr30731-b9be57d.ngbuilds.io/api/platform-browser) has.

> See also [Browser Support](guide/browser-support)

Reviewer: I would remove this line as I don't think that it's very relevant here.

To learn more, see [Pipes](guide/pipes).

{@a platform}

> ## platform

Reviewer 2: The entire section doesn't mention about platform APIs like [`PlatformRef`](https://angular.io/api/core/PlatformRef) and [`createPlatformFactory`](https://angular.io/api/core/createPlatformFactory), but only the platform package.

But without mentioning platform APIs I'll ask what's the real difference between a platform package and non-platform package? If it's just about environment setup, will something like `ng-jest` being recognized a platform package?

Author: This is not platform doc, just a glossary definition that is supposed to clarify how we use the term "platform" in the context of Angular development. We probably do need better API and usage doc - we could open an issue for that.

@IgorMinar what do you think?

Reviewer: Initially I thought that this wasn't the place for those APIs mentioned by @trotyl, but after looking at the SSR guide and the platform-server/browser page (where they aren't mentioned) and reviewing how central they are to the platform packages, this might actually be a good place to link to and mention them briefly.

Author: Not much point in linking to them if they aren't discussed there. This should be mentioned in the issue, to make sure the link gets in when those docs are updated.

Reviewer 2: According to current concept, are `platform-browser` and `platform-browser-dynamic` same platform or not?

Platforms provide a context in which an Angular application runs.
The most common context is a web browser, but it can also be an operating system for a mobile device, or a web server.

> Support for the various Angular run-time platforms is provided by the `@angular/platform-*` packages. These packages allow applications that make use of `@angular/core` and `@angular/common` to execute in different environments by providing implementation for gathering user input and rendering UIs for the given platform. This allows Angular apps to be written In a platform independent way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Support for the various Angular run-time platforms is provided by the `@angular/platform-*` packages. These packages allow applications that make use of `@angular/core` and `@angular/common` to execute in different environments by providing implementation for gathering user input and rendering UIs for the given platform. This allows Angular apps to be written in a platform independent way.
```

> * When running in a web browser, the [`platform-browser`](api/platform-browser) package supplies services that simplify security and event processing, and allow applications to access browser-specific features, such as interpreting keyboard input and controlling the title of the document being displayed. All applications running in the browser use the same platform service.

Reviewer 2: These are actually counter-examples about why platform exists, `services that simplify security and event processing` are all provided by the `BrowserModule` NgModule, not the `platformBrowser()`. This doesn't explain why there needs to be a platform-specific API like `platformBrowser()`, rather than just import different NgModules.

Author: @IgorMinar Can you supply better examples of what the platform modules do?

Reviewer: @trotyl `BrowserModule` is imported from `'@angular/platform-browser'`.

I think that we could do a better job here of calling out that the platform-specific code is isolated into these packages so that the rest of the Angular framework can be written in a platform agnostic way.

Reviewer 2: @Splaktar 

> `BrowserModule` is imported from `'@angular/platform-browser'`.

This simply doesn't explain why there's a `'@angular/platform-browser-dynamic'`, which still relies on `BrowserModule` imported from `'@angular/platform-browser'`, without a new NgModule. Instead, the only different is `platformBrowser()` vs. `platformBrowserDynamic()`, namely the platform factory.

> I think that we could do a better job here of calling out that the platform-specific code is isolated into these packages

Won't explain why a browser application needs `BrowserModule` but a server application needs both `BrowserModule` and `ServerModule`.

Reviewer: @trotyl those are some good points. I wouldn't expect for server apps or NativeScript to need `platform-browser`, but perhaps I'm thinking about things wrong.

@IgorMinar do you have any insight into how we can better describe these platforms given the above? Is `platform-browser` truly supposed to be needed on all platforms by design? Do you have 1 or 2 sentences to describe the difference between `platform-browser` and `platform-browser-dynamic`?

Reviewer 2: @Splaktar The current condition seems to be: instead of providing different render layer, every platform are acting as if it's real browser and provides a DOM-compatible implementation (by setting `DomAdapter`).

So instead of calling it `platform-server`, a more proper name could be `platform-browser-node-compat`. So the question comes as, if every other platform is a compat-addon for `platform-browser`, what the meaning of `browser` left?

Platform seems to be a design failure to me, a platform factory is conceptually a set of predefined providers which also accepts additional runtime-defined providers. But without good official MPA support, the platform-provided shared for all applications are meaningless as there will only be one application in the page. Also instead of making provider at runtime, one can simply create a factory provider and read global values.

I think the Angular team has aware this condition, there was once an experimental PR about extracting shared platform logic in https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/18711, but didn't make it at last.

The biggest hope now is Ivy which made `platform-browser` optional, and allows bootstrapping application without a concept of platform.

So that I believe how it should be document now highly depends on whether this term should be kept in Angular or not. (Or even the same term kept would the concept be significantly changed or not)
